

```shell
layout: post
title: "Mastering Bitcoin: Chapter 1 - Introduction"
date: 2021-07-26 17:00:00 -0000
categories: Bitcoin
permalink: /bitcoin-ch-1
```

# Chapter-1 Introduction



Bitcoin consists of:

- A decentralized P2P n/w (the bitcoin protocol)
- A public transaction ledger (the blockchain)
- A set of rules for independent transaction validation and concurrency issuance (consensus rule)
- A mechanism for reaching global decentralized consensus on the valid blockchain (Proof-of-work algorithm)



### History of Bitcoin

- Invented in 2008 by Satoshi Nakamoto in a paper titled "Bitcoin: a Peer-to-Peer electronic cash system"
- Proof-of-Work (PoW) runs every 10 min. to conduct election to reach at *consensus* about the state of transactions (thus decentralized decision making and solves for double-spend)
- The implementation of PoW algorithm (mining) that provides security and resilience for bitcoin has increased in power exponentially, and now exceeds the combined processing power of world's top supercomputers. Total Market Value (TMV) has exceeded 135 billion USD.



##### ***A solution to a distributed computing problem***

Using PoW to reach a distributed consensus is also a solution to the classing "*Byzantine Generals Problem*"

and has application in different fields such as elections, lotteries, asset registries and much more.



### Bitcoin uses, users, and their stories

**tl/dr** Bitcoin has many applications retailing, outsourcing and international wire transfers, donation and fundraising and mining. Read the book 🙈



### Getting Started

A "bitcoin wallet" is the most common UI to the bitcoin system, like browser is for HTTP protocol. "Satoshi Client" or "Bitcoin Core" is the reference implementation of Bitcoin protocol.

#### Choosing a Bitcoin wallet

**Based on platform**: desktop wallet, mobile wallet, web wallet, hardware wallet, paper wallet (cold storage).

**Based on autonomy**: full-node client, light-weight client (simple-payment-verification (SPV) client), third-party API client.

The three most common are desktop full-node client, mobile light-weight wallet and web third-party wallet.

#### Quick start

A wallet is a collection of addresses and the keys that can be used to unlock the fund within.

Only after a transaction a bitcoin address becomes a part of the bitcoin network.

#### Getting your first bitcoin

Unlike other electronic payments, bitcoin transactions are irreversible. There are many ways to acquire BTC. Read the book to know them all.

#### Finding the current price of BTC

The price of BTC is set by markets.

*Bitcoin Average* and *CoinCap* are some websites that provide current rates.

#### Sending and receiving BTCs

Nothing unusual. Read the book 🙂

